README.md, before:


EAlGIS
======

![Unemployment % in Perth, Australia](https://raw.github.com/grahame/ealgis/master/doc/screenshots/unemployment.png "Unemployment % in Perth, Australia")


Interactive Data Analysis
-------------------------

EAlGIS offers:

 * a web interface to allow quick, interactive analysis of geospatial data, overlaid over a Google baselayer using OpenLayers
     - add one or more "polygon" layers, which plot a given loaded polygon data source (PostGIS table)
     - polygons in the layer are filled according to a function, which uses attributes that are linked to the chosen geometry
       functions are simple expressions. to plot the percentage of women in each Australian Census SA1 polygon, you would enter 
       the formula "100 * B2 / B3". this is automatically resolved into a database query which can be called by MapServer
     - polygons can also be filtered out. For example, if you wish to avoid SA1s which have very few people (and thus may have 
       nonsense values when percentages of some attribute are calculated), you might add a filter "b3 > 30" when plotting the 
       Australian Census.
     - download calculated values for further analysis
     - user access delegated to Mozilla Personas
 * reproducable data loader infrastructure, and pre-supplied loader for the Australian Census 2011.
     - be sure where the data in your database came from
     - automated reprojection to map SRIDs (a big performance win)
     - includes loaders for shapefiles, and for CSV data (which can be linked with shapefiles, for easy interactive analysis)
 * framework for off-line analysis work
     - perform complex analysis outside of EAlGIS, and then load the results in to visualise them on a map

Installation
------------

EAlGIS is intended to be run within docker.

To get started create this directory structure in the root directory:

    dev/
      pg_log/
      geoserver/

Then just:

    docker-compose up

Add a [Python Social Auth](http://python-social-auth.readthedocs.io/en/latest) backend of your choice. e.g. [Social backends](http://python-social-auth.readthedocs.io/en/latest/backends/index.html#social-backends).

Assuming you're configuring Google as a backend for auth:

Refer to [PySocialAuth Google](http://python-social-auth.readthedocs.io/en/latest/backends/google.html) and [Google - Using OAuth 2.0 to Access Google APIs](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/OAuth2?csw=1#Registering).

- Create a Web application OAuth 2 Client in the Google API's Console
  - Add `http://localhost:8000` as an **Authorised JavaScript origin**
  - Add `http://localhost:8000/complete/google-oauth2/` as an **Authorised redirect URI**
  - Enable the Google+ API
- Copy `django/web-variables.env.tmpl` to `django/web-varibles.env`
- Add the resulting Client Id and Secret to `django/web-variables.env`
- Nuke and restart your Docker containers
- Navigate to `http://localhost:8000/login/google-oauth2/` and you be sent through the Google OAuth flow and end up back at `http://localhost:8000/`

Now you're up and running!

Making yourself an admin:

Hop into your running `django_web` Docker container:

`docker exec -i -t django_web_1 /bin/bash`

And enter the Django Admin shell:

```
django-admin shell
from django.contrib.auth.models import User
User.objects.all()
user=_[0]
user.is_staff = True
user.is_superuser = True
user.save()
```

Now you should be able to navigate to the Django admin backend at `http://localhost:8000/admin/`!


Get some data
------------
However, you won't have any data. You'll need to load one or more datasets into EAlGIS.
You may wish to start with the 2011 Australian Census: https://github.com/grahame/ealgis-aus-census-2011

When loading data, you might want to clone the loader module in the `data/uwsgi` directory
of the EAlGIS checkout. The code will then be available in `/data` in your
uwsgi container.

Commit message:

Nice first-run developer experience
Mostly fixes #53

README.md, after:


EAlGIS
======

![Unemployment % in Perth, Australia](https://raw.github.com/grahame/ealgis/master/doc/screenshots/unemployment.png "Unemployment % in Perth, Australia")


Interactive Data Analysis
-------------------------

EAlGIS offers:

 * a web interface to allow quick, interactive analysis of geospatial data, overlaid over a Google baselayer using OpenLayers
     - add one or more "polygon" layers, which plot a given loaded polygon data source (PostGIS table)
     - polygons in the layer are filled according to a function, which uses attributes that are linked to the chosen geometry
       functions are simple expressions. to plot the percentage of women in each Australian Census SA1 polygon, you would enter 
       the formula "100 * B2 / B3". this is automatically resolved into a database query which can be called by MapServer
     - polygons can also be filtered out. For example, if you wish to avoid SA1s which have very few people (and thus may have 
       nonsense values when percentages of some attribute are calculated), you might add a filter "b3 > 30" when plotting the 
       Australian Census.
     - download calculated values for further analysis
     - user access delegated to Mozilla Personas
 * reproducable data loader infrastructure, and pre-supplied loader for the Australian Census 2011.
     - be sure where the data in your database came from
     - automated reprojection to map SRIDs (a big performance win)
     - includes loaders for shapefiles, and for CSV data (which can be linked with shapefiles, for easy interactive analysis)
 * framework for off-line analysis work
     - perform complex analysis outside of EAlGIS, and then load the results in to visualise them on a map

Installation
------------

EAlGIS is intended to be run within docker.

To get started:

> docker-compose up

Django Setup
-----------

Add a [Python Social Auth](http://python-social-auth.readthedocs.io/en/latest) backend of your choice. e.g. [Social backends](http://python-social-auth.readthedocs.io/en/latest/backends/index.html#social-backends).

Assuming you're configuring Google as a backend for auth:

Refer to [PySocialAuth Google](http://python-social-auth.readthedocs.io/en/latest/backends/google.html) and [Google - Using OAuth 2.0 to Access Google APIs](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/OAuth2?csw=1#Registering).

- Create a Web application OAuth 2 Client in the Google API's Console
  - Add `http://localhost:8000` as an **Authorised JavaScript origin**
  - Add `http://localhost:8000/complete/google-oauth2/` as an **Authorised redirect URI**
  - Enable the Google+ API
- Copy `django/web-variables.env.tmpl` to `django/web-varibles.env`
- Add the resulting Client Id and Secret to `django/web-variables.env`
- Nuke and restart your Docker containers
- Navigate to `http://localhost:8000/`, choose Google as your signon option, and you should be sent through the Google OAuth flow and end up back at `http://localhost:8000/` with your username displayed on the app.

Now you're up and running!

Becoming An Admin
-----------------
Making yourself an admin:

Hop into your running `django_web` Docker container:

`docker exec -i -t django_web_1 /bin/bash`

And enter the Django Admin shell:

```
django-admin shell
from django.contrib.auth.models import User
User.objects.all()
user=_[0]
user.is_staff = True
user.is_superuser = True
user.save()
```

Now you should be able to navigate to the Django admin backend at `http://localhost:8000/admin/`!


GeoServer Config
----------------
The first time GeoServer runs it initialises all of its configuration files in the GeoServer Data Directory. The default GeoServer configuration is insecure, has verbose logging, and lacks workspace configuration that EALGIS requires.

To setup GeoServer for use by EALGIS you need to run a once-off shell script - `/geoserver/first-run.sh`.

First, uncomment the volume mapping `./geoserver:/app` for the `geoserver` container in `docker-compose.yml`.

Then `docker-compose up`, and in a separate terminal window hop in to your running GeoServer container and execute:

```
docker exec -it ealgis_geoserver_1 /bin/bash
cd /app/
chmod +x firstrun.sh
./firstrun.sh
```

Follow the on-screen instructions that `firstrun.sh` prints out, and then you're done.

Congratulations! GeoServer is now setup with some sensible configuration defaults.


Get some data
------------
However, you won't have any data. You'll need to load one or more datasets into EAlGIS.
You may wish to start with the 2011 Australian Census: https://github.com/grahame/ealgis-aus-census-2011

When loading data, you might want to clone the loader module in the `data/uwsgi` directory
of the EAlGIS checkout. The code will then be available in `/data` in your
uwsgi container.
